

Part 1: Capture DNS Traffic

Part 2: Explore DNS Query Traffic

Part 3: Explore DNS Response Traffic
Background / Scenario

Wireshark is an open source packet capture and analysis tool. Wireshark gives a detailed breakdown of the network protocol stack. Wireshark allows you to filter traffic for network troubleshooting, investigate security issues, and analyze network protocols. Because Wireshark allows you to view the packet details, it can be used as a reconnaissance tool for an attacker.

In this lab, you will install Wireshark and use Wireshark to filter for DNS packets and view the details of both DNS query and response packets.
Required Resources

    1 PC with internet access and Wireshark installed

Instructions
Part 1: Capture DNS Traffic
Step 1: Download and install Wireshark.

    Download the latest stable version of Wireshark from www.wireshark.org. Choose the software version you need based on your PC’s architecture and operating system.
    Follow the on-screen instructions to install Wireshark. If you are prompted to install USBP cap, do NOT install USBP cap for normal traffic capture. USBP cap is experimental, and it could cause USB problems on your PC.

Step 2: Capture DNS traffic.

    Start Wireshark. Select an active interface with traffic for packet capture.
    Clear the DNS cache.

    In Windows, enter ipconfig /flushdns in Command Prompt.
    For the majority of Linux distributions, one of the following utilities is used for DNS caching: Systemd -Resolved, DNSMasq, and NSCD. If your Linux distribution does not use one of the listed utilities, please perform an internet search for the DNS caching utility for your Linux distribution.

Identify the utility used in your Linux distribution by checking the status:

    Systemd-Resolved: systemctl status systemd-resolved.service
    DNSMasq:       systemctl status dnsmasq.service
    NSCD:        systemctl status nscd.service

If you are using system-resolved, enter systemd-resolve --flush-caches to flush the cache for Systemd-Resolved before restarting the service. The following commands restart the associated service using elevated privileges:

    Systemd-Resolved: sudo systemctl restart systemd-resolved.service
    DNSMasq:        sudo systemctl restart dnsmasq.service
    NSCD:        sudo systemctl restart nscd.service

    For the macOS, enter sudo killall -HUP mDNSResponder to clear the DNS cache in the Terminal. Perform an internet search for the commands to clear the DNS cache for an older OS.

    At a command prompt or terminal, type nslookup enter the interactive mode.
    Enter the domain name of a website. The domain name www.cisco.com is used in this example.
    Type exit when finished. Close the command prompt.
    Click Stop capturing packets to stop the Wireshark capture
